======
1098-T
======

1098T General Procedures
========================

#. Ensure the 1098T Colleague updates have been applied currently by Dave in IT. I provide him with these `1098t Ellucian Releases`_ .

1098T Annual Procedures
=======================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

{% for item in years %}

   {{ item }}/{{ item }}.rst

{% endfor %}

1098t Colleague Forms
=====================

* :ref:`T98T` -- corrections?

| Build

* :ref:`T9TD` - Default Parameters as well. Where the year param(like GI03) is configured for the submission.
* :ref:`T9TE` - Box code aditional parameters and exceptions.
* :ref:`T9TG` - Build/Work form -- longer process ~ 1hr
* :ref:`T9TM` - Export Flat file

* :ref:`TFBX` - Looks to match Box Codes for IRS forms to AR record codes.

| Reports

* :ref:`T9TA` - Generate Analytical Report.
* :ref:`T9TR` - Generate Detail Report -- longer process ~1hr
* :ref:`T9TF` - Print actual 1098t's as pdf
* :ref:`T9TY` - Webadvisor pdfs -- under :ref:`T9TD` -- pretty much set to yes...
* :ref:`T9RN` - Email Notifications?

| Status why 2 this got be at the end of 2022?

* :ref:`T9TS` - Set submission status
* :ref:`T9TC` - Set Submission Status

| More information on the above forms can be found.

* `1098t Ellucian Walkthrough`_

| Also Daves and Michael's walkthrough.

1098t Info
==========

| We currently use a Third party service to ensure our 1098ts are reported to the irs and can be printed. Sutents will soon be able to get a digital copy through Colleague Self-Service.

* TRACustomerSupport@maximus.com

1098t Common Joins
==================

.. dropdown:: 1098-T Common Join SQL

   .. code-block:: SQL

      SELECT * -- DISTINCT LEFT(aw.AR_1098T_WORK_ID, 7)
      FROM AR_1098T_WORK aw
           LEFT JOIN AR_1098T_BOXES_WORK abw ON LEFT(aw.AR_1098T_WORK_ID, 7) = LEFT(abw.AR_1098T_BOXES_WORK_ID, 7)

1098-T Useful Resources
=======================

* `Maximus TRA Login`_  - Our Third party Service.
* `Maximus TRA Links`_  - More links to IRS info.
* `IRS 1098t Info`_
* `Turbo Tax 1098t Info`_
* `2023 1098t Instructions`_ newest instructions
* `1098t Ellucian Walkthrough`_
* `Ellucian-Colleague-Student`_ - info about configuring colleague student.
* `1098t Ellucian Releases`_ -- Where to check for updates in customer center.

Quick Google tidbit on SCH vs Box 1
===================================

| No, you don't have to report your 1098-T, not unless you want to claim an education credit. However if your grant/scholarship amount (box 5) is more than your tuition (box 1/box 2) you may want to report it because excess scholarship money may be treated as taxable income on your return.
